Now that we've created a one stop and a two top Lego block let's now work on this eight top.
All right.
I'm going to go back to the template layer that I have way over here and select it.
And this time of press shift d click and now let's call this eight top
now with this still selected.
I'll press the key and move this to layer number three.
All right.
So let's go to Larry number three and here is the beginning of the eight top.
Now we go through the same process once again.
Let's press shift D and click and go to the move tool and let's make sure and move this exactly to unit
in the x 2 and we go and I'll go ahead and seal these up.
I'll select one shifts like the other press control J so they become all one object.
I'll go into edit mode by pressing the tab key.
And then I'll switch to vertex mode by pressing control tab and choosing vertex.
I'll press the Z key to go to wireframe and the B key to board or select.
I got an extra point in there so I'll try again I'll hit the A key to de-select B.
And border select just those.
And now press control V and remove doubles.
There we go.
It says removed five vertices.
So now we have those connected.
Let's do that again.
Let's take this entire piece.
Duplicate it.
Shift D and move it to units in the Y.
Now we go.
So now we do the same thing.
Select this piece and that piece control J.
And now and we go into edit mode.
We should be able to see that these pieces are these vertices are not connected.
You can see that here.
So I'll undo that with control or command Z.
So now we need to take all of these vertices and connect them together.
So once again I'll go into wireframe by hitting the Z key be for border select and click and drag.
Now if you wanted to select those by just dragging a lasso around those points you can also just hold
the control key down and click and drag and notice I can just create a lasso around these points like
this so control click and drag will also allow you to select multiple points.
All right so now that I have those I'll press control V and remove doubles.
So now we have four nubs on our way to 8 here.
So now all we need to do is select this piece shift d to duplicate.
I'm going to hit enter and it looks like I moved it just a bit.
I'm going to hit undo and make sure that this is correct.
So I think I moved it just a little bit with my mouse.
I could see some values up in here so I'm going to try that again.
I'll press shift D and this time so I'm sure I don't move anything.
I'm just going to press the enter key.
Not even going to touch the mouse.
Now if I move this over in the x axis you can see that I'm going to be moving at negative 4 instead
of 2 or negative 2.
I want to be moving at negative 4.
And here we go.
Select these two pieces press control J.
And now let's connect them up press the tab key and this time press Z for wire frame and I'll press
the control key and click and drag a lasso around all of these like this where you go and then control
the and remove doubles.
All right.
So now we have our eight top.
Now let's turn on this subdivision surface modifier and see if there's any polling or if there's any
problems.
I'll turn this on and it looks like it's pretty good.
We would see some sort of polling or stretching if there were any vertices that weren't connected.
So a good way to test that is to turn on this subdivision surface modifier.
So I'll go ahead and turn that off for now.
While we continue now I'm going to take this piece and move it up to units you can see here in the Z
I'll type in two and enter.
And now if I tab into Edit Mode press control tab and go to edge mode right here.
Now I can press Alt click and select that edge and then I'll press shift alt and click this.
The same with this.
And over here as well.
Now if I hit the e key and I'll hit the enter key.
Now I can drag this down and the Z-axis and once again we're up two units high so I can just type in
negative two here in the z and then down beneath here let's go ahead and finish up the edge.
So we hit the and click and S and scale these in a bit and then I'll press e for extrude click and drag
straight up again.
And there we go.
Now we have our eight top.
The last thing we need to do is insert some edge loops because if we turn on the subdivision surface
modifier again it'll get all gloppy.
That's a technical term of course.
So I'll turn the modifier off just for a minute while I do this and then I'll press control our add
an edge loop around each of these corners.
This
to hold those edges so they don't collapse.
Press Control are insert two edges horizontally.
Click again.
Go to the scale tool and scale those in the Z-axis
And lastly down here in the bottom I'll do the same thing two edges and click and click again and then
an edge down here on the inside right there.
All right.
So now let's turn on the subdivision surface modifier and there we have our eight top.
So now we have an eight top two top one top.
Now let's turn all of these layers on.
And now there we can see they're overlapping.
Maybe I'll take the 8 top here and go to the move tool and slide it aside and maybe I'll select that
one top from the outliner here and move that to one side as well.
Now if we wanted to begin building something with our Legos we would want an easy way to snap them one
to another.
Now we can of course take each one of these pieces and press the G key and move them and try and put
them on top of each other.
But it be good if we had a way to snap one to the other.
So what we can do is actually move the pivot point to one of the corners.
One of the bottom corners of the objects.
And then use Blender's snapping tools to snap them together.
So here let me show you what I mean.
Let's take this origin point and move it to the corner.
So what I'll do is alt tab into edit mode and I select this very corner vertex.
And now I use the snap menu shift to move that cursor to the selected component so I'll just choose
cursor to selected.
And now if I tab back into object mode I can come over to the tools tab and select the set origin menu
and choose origin to 3D cursor.
So now that puts that origin point right on the corner there now we can do is come down to our snapping
tools right down here turn on snapping and we couldn't change our type of snapping or the element we're
going to snap to to Virtex and we can change the snap target to active.
So now if I press the G key and move this piece you can see it's going to snap to one of our objects
so I can snap this piece to that or maybe I can take it and snap it over here to here.
And this one now I need to do the same thing.
So I'll just tab into edit mode select a corner point press shift ass and move that cursor to that component
to that selected point.
Now I'll come over and move the origin to that 3D cursor.
And now the origin is right there on the corner of that block.
So now I can hit the G key and move this around and snap it up top here.
So now if I wanted to build more I could just press shift D and click and now I can move this up and
snap it to here and maybe shift d here and I could snap it up.
Here so you can see once you turn on that snapping tool you can really begin to build and construct
these a lot quicker.
Now the last thing I'd like to do is just add color to these.
We haven't really talked about that at all.
We can add color to these in the materials panel right over here.
So click this and with one of our objects selected we can create a new material so I'll just click new.
And now you can see that material has been created and it's given that selected objects in a different
color of gray a different shade of gray.
So let's make this one red.
I'll call the material red and we'll scroll down here and in the color palette we can just click that
color and move our point in the color wheel down to a red and there we go.
Now we don't see it change here because we're not looking at it in the material viewport shading so
let's click material here and there we go.
We can see it now.
In the viewport.
So let's give this one a color now I'll select that one.
Come up here create a new material for it.
I'll call this one green and let's give this one a green color as well.
And here we go.
Maybe a little bit darker.
Let me pull this down some.
So that's a little bit darker.
Every go and maybe this one could be blue We'll call that material blue and we'll give it blue color
over here maybe a little bit darker like that.
Now if we wanted to we could even come over here to the sample button click there and sample a color
right off this blue block.
Maybe that's a little too dark.
But anyway you can see how you can sample colors off of an image.
Now maybe this one is going to be green as well.
Let's select this block.
And what I can do if I want this one to be green I can just come to this menu here pull that out and
choose from one of my existing materials so I'll just make that one green and I'll make this one red.
And there we go.
We've got our Lego blocks.
Well in the next video we'll talk about using the tools we've gone over so far to create something a
little bit more complex.